How to Make a Discord Bot in Python

What You’ll Need;

1. Python 3.10+ (install from python.org, check “Add Python to PATH” during setup)
2. VS Code (with the Microsoft Python extension)
3. Discord Developer Portal account (to create your bot and get its token)
4. Hosting method:
  Self‑hosting (bot runs only while your PC is on)
  Cloud hosting (Replit, Railway, VPS) for 24/7 uptime

Below is a simple, complete, beginner-friendly guide on how to make a Discord bot in Python, using the requirements listed. I’ll show you step-by-step how to create the bot, write the code, run it, and invite it to your server.

🛠 Step‑By‑Step Setup

step 1. create a folder on you desktop called "My discord bot" then open that folder in vs code.

step 2. create 2 files one called "bot.py" and one called ".env".
        Project Folder should look like this:
          My discord bot/
                    bot.py
                    .env

step 3. now copy my versions of bot.py and .env into your files you have just created.

step 4. then go to the discord developer portal (https://discord.com/developers/) and follow these instructions:
Create Your Bot in the Developer Portal:
    1. Go to Discord Developer Portal
            Click New Application → name it
    2. In Bot tab click reset bot token 
      (For security purposes, tokens can only be viewed once, when created. If you forgot or lost access to your token, please regenerate a new one.)
    3. Then Copy your Bot Token (⚠ keep it secret, like a password) and paste it into your .env file after "DISCORD_TOKEN=" make sure you delete "YOUR_BOT_TOKEN_HERE" and add your bot token
    4. In Bot tab → Add Bot
            Enable MESSAGE CONTENT INTENT (others optional)

step 5. Install Dependencies needed for your discord bot if your on windows open your command prompt and copy and paste this: 
    pip install discord.py python-dotenv

step 6. Run Your Bot in vs code, with the bot.py file open click the little play button top right when you hover over should say "Run python file"
      If successful:
        Code
        ✅ Logged in as <botname>

step 7. Invite Bot to Your Server
        Developer Portal → OAuth2 → URL Generator
      
        Scopes: bot, applications.commands
      
        Permissions: Send Messages, Use Slash Commands (add more if needed)
      
        Copy URL → paste in browser → select server → Authorize
